# NewsBlur Version 13.1 Release Notes #


A reverse-chronological list of changes for this minor version and its bug-fix releases.

Note: changes apply to both iOS and Mac editions, unless otherwise noted.


## Version 13.1.11 (build 310) ##



## Version 13.1.10 (build 308) ##

- Fixed the All Shared Stories section appearing when not following anyone.
- Fixed site contextual menu icons being too large.


## Version 13.1.9 (build 307) ##

- Fix for feeds list on macOS 26 when using a dark theme in light mode or vice versa.
- Now colors the titlebar above the feeds list based on the theme on macOS (the bar above the story list and story can not be changed).


## Version 13.1.8 (build 306) ##

Some widget interaction improvements:

- Fixed an occasional crash when choosing a story in a widget.
- Improved reliability of finding the story.
- Prevented marking the first story as read when finding a story, if the setting to select the first story is chosen.


## Version 13.1.7 (build 297) ##

- Fixed images in stories sometimes appearing too large..


## Version 13.1.6 (build 296) ##

- Fixed the wrong story sometimes being selected when first opening the app.


## Version 13.1.5 (build 295) ##

- Fixed cached images not rendering on iOS 18 and macOS Sequoia.


## Version 13.1.4 (build 290) ##

- Fixed the top of the first story being scrolled off the top of the feed list. [iOS]


## Version 13.1.3 (build 289) ##

- Fixed the feeds list leaving a space after all stories read.
- Fixed swiping to mark story as read/unread right after loading marking a different story.
- Fixed saved searches not appearing.
- Fixed the icon for the Delete Saved Search command.
- Tweaked the position of the unread indicator when selecting a story title.
- The size of the middle column can now be adjusted. [Mac]

