h1. Backwards Incompatible Changes

_A list of backwards incompatible changes_

h3. Revision 53

http://code.google.com/p/django-compress/source/detail?r=53

Changed the default media type for CSS to "all" instead of "media,projection". You can still specify media type with `extra_context`.
h3. Revision 56

http://code.google.com/p/django-compress/source/detail?r=56

*bump_filename completely changed*

bump_filename was broken because a lot of caches does not properly cache files with querystrings. Therefore it is completely rewritten without any thoughts on backwards compatibility, since it was not possible anyways. This changeset also introduces a couple of other changes that could potentially break old code.

* The `bump_filename` option was removed from the group settings. There is no need specifying it for ALL groups, if you actually use it, you most likely want to use it on all your compressed files.
* The bump_filename options is replaced by the setting COMPRESS_VERSION, and is completely ignored.
* The querystring is no longer used to determine a files version, since it was use
* If COMPRESS_VERSION is used, you specify the version part of the `output_filename` file with '?'. This placeholder can be changed with COMPRESS_VERSION_PLACEHOLDER. 

E.g.:
<pre>
<pre><code>
'screen': {
    'source_filenames': ('css/screen/style.css', 'css/screen/paginator.css', 'css/screen/agenda.css', 'css/screen/weather.css', 'css/screen/gallery.css', ),
    'output_filename': 'c/screen.r?.css',
},
</code></pre>
</pre>

* COMPRESS_VERSION requires COMPRESS_AUTO to be enabled. COMPRESS_AUTO is enabled by default, but if you explicitly set it to `False` an ImproperlyConfiguredError exception will be thrown. 

COMPRESS_AUTO changes

* The CSS/Javascript files are not checked during Django's initialization anymore. It was not really useful and did not make sense. The automatic part is now handled by the templatetags (i.e. what used to be COMPRESS_TEMPLATE_AUTO).
* COMPRESS_AUTO is replaced by COMPRESS_AUTO_TEMPLATE, and the old behavior of COMPRESS_AUTO is removed. This might be really confusing, the Configuration should make it clear. 